docs/MATRIX_SYSTEM_COMPLETE.md, before:

# VETS READY MATRIX SYSTEM - COMPLETE IMPLEMENTATION GUIDE

## Overview

This document describes the complete VetsReady Matrix System implementation, built according to the comprehensive development instructions provided. The system is a unified, matrix-driven, veteran-focused claim-preparation, benefits-discovery, and transition-support platform.

## Legal Compliance

✅ **NEVER** files VA claims or transmits claim data
✅ **NEVER** implies government affiliation or endorsement
✅ **ALWAYS** redirects to VA.gov for actual claim filing
✅ **EDUCATIONAL AND PREPARATORY ONLY**
✅ Does not provide legal or medical advice
✅ Does not generate VA forms or simulate VA systems

---

## Architecture Principles

### Single Source of Truth
- **Global Data Store**: VeteranProfileContext holds ALL veteran data
- **One-Time Entry**: Veteran enters information ONCE
- **Automatic Population**: All modules read from same data store
- **Real-Time Updates**: Changes propagate instantly across all modules

### Matrix Engine
- **Centralized Evaluation**: Single engine processes profile once
- **Eight Outputs**: Benefits, Theories, Evidence, CFR, Secondary, Strategy, Summary, Transition
- **Dynamic Calculation**: Re-evaluates on every profile change

---

## Core Modules

### 1. DD214 Scanner (`/src/services/DD214Scanner.ts`)

**Purpose**: Extract veteran service information from DD214 documents

**Extracts**:
- Branch of service
- Entry and separation dates
- Character of service
- Separation code and narrative reason
- Pay grade and rank
- Awards and decorations
- Combat indicators

**Key Features**:
- Non-destructive (requires user confirmation)
- Extraction confidence scoring (high/medium/low)
- Detailed extraction logs
- Handles PDF and image files
- Ready for OCR library integration (Tesseract.js, AWS Textract, etc.)

**Compliance**:
```typescript
// All extractions require veteran review
extractionLog.push('Extraction requires user confirmation');
result.requiresReview = true;
```

---

### 2. Rating Narrative Scanner (`/src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts`)

**Purpose**: Extract condition, rating, and status information from VA Rating Decision documents

**Extracts**:
- Service-connected conditions with ratings
- Denied conditions
- P&T (Permanent and Total) status
- TDIU (Total Disability Individual Unemployability) indicators
- SMC (Special Monthly Compensation) level and reason
- Bilateral conditions
- Diagnostic codes
- Evidence references
- C&P exam dates

**Key Features**:
- Ignores irrelevant narrative text
- Highlights extracted data for confirmation
- Maps conditions to Disabilities module
- Never assumes correctness - always allows editing

**Compliance**:
```typescript
// Non-destructive extraction
result.requiresReview = true;
extractionLog.push('All extractions must be confirmed by veteran');
```

---

### 3. VA Math Utilities (`/src/utils/VAMath.ts`)

**Purpose**: Implement official VA combined rating calculation formulas

**Implements**:
- **Combined Rating Formula**: `100 - [(100 - R1) × (100 - R2) × ... / 100^n]`
- **Bilateral Factor**: 10% bonus for paired extremities (arms, legs)
- **Rounding Rules**: Round to nearest 10% (≥5 rounds up, <5 rounds down)
- **Rating Needed Calculator**: Calculates what rating needed to reach target

**Example Calculation**:
```
Veteran has:
- PTSD: 70%
- Tinnitus: 10%
- Left Knee: 20%
- Right Knee: 30%

Step 1: Sort highest to lowest
  1. PTSD: 70%
  2. Right Knee: 30%
  3. Left Knee: 20%
  4. Tinnitus: 10%

Step 2: Apply bilateral factor (both knees)
  Bilateral = (30% + 20%) × 10% = 5%

Step 3: Calculate combined rating
  100% efficiency
  After 70%: 30% efficiency
  After 30%: 21% efficiency
  After 20%: 16.8% efficiency
  After 10%: 15.12% efficiency
  After 5%: 14.364% efficiency

  Combined = 100 - 14.364 = 85.636%

Step 4: Round to nearest 10%
  85.636% → 90%
```

**Compliance**:
```typescript
const explanation = `IMPORTANT: This is an educational estimate only.
Your official rating is determined by the VA. The VA uses a combined
rating table found in 38 CFR §4.25.`;
```

---

### 4. Disabilities Module (`/src/components/DisabilitiesModule.tsx`)

**Purpose**: Card-based UI for entering conditions and viewing combined rating

**Features**:
- Add/Edit/Delete individual conditions
- Per-condition fields:
  - Condition name
  - VA rating (10% increments only)
  - Service-connected status
  - Body part/extremity
  - Paired extremity indicator
  - Diagnostic code
- Real-time combined rating calculation
- Bilateral factor display
- Detailed VA math breakdown
- Plain language explanations

**UX Requirements**:
- Mobile-first responsive design
- ADA-compliant
- Card-based layout
- Modal-based condition entry
- Visual rating display (large number)

**Validation**:
```typescript
// Ensure valid VA rating
if (!isValidVARating(newCondition.rating)) {
  alert('VA ratings must be in 10% increments (0, 10, 20, ... 100)');
  return;
}
```

---

### 5. Transition Engine (`/src/services/TransitionEngine.ts`)

**Purpose**: Provide transition benefits, resources, and TAP-like checklists

**Evaluates**:
- Transition status (transitioning/active/veteran)
- Days until separation
- TAP checklist completion percentage

**Generates**:
1. **TAP Checklist** (15 tasks across 6 categories):
   - Healthcare: Enroll in VA, separation assessment, medical records
   - Disability: File BDD claim, attend briefing, gather evidence
   - Records: Request DD214, service records
   - Education: Apply for GI Bill, explore VET TEC
   - Career: Update resume, register with V4V
   - Financial: Create budget, understand TSP

2. **Transition Benefits**:
   - Education: Post-9/11 GI Bill, MGIB, VET TEC
   - Employment: VR&E, VA for Veterans
   - Healthcare: VA Healthcare, TRICARE
   - Housing: VA Home Loan
   - Business: Veteran Entrepreneur Portal, Boots to Business

3. **Healthcare Transition Guidance**:
   - Timeline (start 180 days before separation)
   - 7-step process
   - Official resources

**Compliance**:
```typescript
// All resources link to official .gov sites
officialUrl: 'https://www.va.gov/education/gi-bill-comparison-tool/'
```

---

### 6. Unified Dashboard (`/src/components/UnifiedDashboard.tsx`)

**Purpose**: Central hub displaying ALL Matrix Engine outputs in one view

**Required Sections** (per instructions):

#### Section 1: Profile Overview
- Branch, service dates, discharge type
- Combat service, state, dependents
- P&T, TDIU, SMC status

#### Section 2: Disabilities & Ratings Summary
- Combined rating display (large visual)
- Bilateral factor badge
- All conditions with ratings
- Detailed VA math calculation

#### Section 3: Benefits Matrix
- Total benefits count
- Federal vs. State breakdown
- Per-benefit cards with descriptions
- Official resource links

#### Section 4: Theories of Entitlement
- 8 theories with applies/may-apply badges
- Educational explanations
- Evidence needed per theory
- CFR legal references
- Strength indicators

#### Section 5: Evidence & Tasks
- 5 evidence categories
- Required vs. optional evidence
- Organized by category

#### Section 6: CFR Diagnostic Codes
- 38 CFR Part 4 codes
- Current and next rating levels
- Criteria for each rating

#### Section 7: Secondary Condition Finder
- Primary → Secondary pairs
- Medical nexus explanations
- Strength ratings

#### Section 8: Transition Resources (if applicable)
- Days until separation countdown
- TAP checklist progress bar
- Transition benefits grid

#### Section 9: Summary + VA.gov Redirect
- Profile summary
- Next steps
- **"File Your Claim on VA.gov" button**
- Disclaimer

**Dynamic Updates**:
```typescript
// Re-evaluate matrix whenever profile changes
useEffect(() => {
  const output = evaluateMatrix(profile);
  setMatrixOutput(output);
  if (profile.branch) {
    applyBranchTheme(profile.branch);
  }
}, [profile]);
```

**Compliance**:
```typescript
<p className="disclaimer">
  <strong>Important:</strong> VetsReady does not file claims.
  We prepare and educate only. You must file your claim directly with the VA.
</p>
```

---

## Data Flow

### Intake Workflow

```
1. DD214 Upload
   ↓ (OCR extraction)
2. Review Extracted Data
   ↓ (confirm/edit)
3. Rating Narrative Upload
   ↓ (OCR extraction)
4. Review Extracted Data
   ↓ (confirm/edit)
5. Manual Fallback Inputs
   ↓ (fill any gaps)
6. Disabilities & Ratings Entry
   ↓ (VA math calculation)
7. Matrix Engine Evaluation
   ↓ (8 outputs generated)
8. Unified Dashboard
   ↓ (all outputs displayed)
9. Summary + VA.gov Redirect
```

### Global Data Store (VeteranProfileContext)

```typescript
{
  // Basic Profile
  branch: string
  serviceStartDate: string
  serviceEndDate: string
  dischargeType: string
  veteranStatus: string
  state: string
  dependents: number

  // DD214-Derived
  separationCode: string
  rank: string
  awards: string[]
  hasCombatService: boolean

  // Rating Narrative-Derived
  rating: number
  isPermanentAndTotal: boolean
  hasTDIU: boolean
  hasSMC: boolean

  // Disabilities
  disabilities: DisabilityRating[]

  // Transition
  isTransitioning: boolean
  separationDate: string
}
```

---

## File Structure

```
vets-ready-frontend/
├── src/
│   ├── services/
│   │   ├── DD214Scanner.ts                 ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── RatingNarrativeScanner.ts       ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── TransitionEngine.ts             ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── MatrixEngine.ts                 ✅ EXISTING
│   │   └── BranchThemes.ts                 ✅ EXISTING
│   ├── utils/
│   │   └── VAMath.ts                       ✅ NEW
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── DisabilitiesModule.tsx          ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── UnifiedDashboard.tsx            ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── MatrixDashboard.tsx             ✅ EXISTING
│   │   └── ClaimsHub.tsx                   ✅ EXISTING
│   └── context/
│       └── VeteranProfileContext.tsx       ✅ EXISTING
```

---

## Integration Guide

### Add Unified Dashboard to App.tsx

```typescript
import UnifiedDashboard from './components/UnifiedDashboard';

<Route path="/dashboard" element={<UnifiedDashboard />} />
```

### Add Disabilities Module to App.tsx

```typescript
import DisabilitiesModule from './components/DisabilitiesModule';

<Route path="/disabilities" element={<DisabilitiesModule />} />
```

### Use Document Scanners

```typescript
import { extractDD214Data, mapDD214ToProfile } from './services/DD214Scanner';
import { extractRatingNarrativeData, mapRatingNarrativeToProfile } from './services/RatingNarrativeScanner';

// Upload DD214
const file = event.target.files[0];
const extractedData = await extractDD214Data(file);

// Show extracted data to veteran for review
setExtractedDD214(extractedData);

// After veteran confirms
const confirmedFields = ['branch', 'entryDate', 'separationDate'];
const updates = mapDD214ToProfile(extractedData, confirmedFields);
updateProfile(updates);
```

### Use VA Math

```typescript
import { calculateCombinedRating, roundToNearest10 } from './utils/VAMath';

const disabilities = [
  { conditionName: 'PTSD', rating: 70, serviceConnected: true },
  { conditionName: 'Tinnitus', rating: 10, serviceConnected: true },
  { conditionName: 'Left Knee', rating: 20, extremity: 'left', serviceConnected: true },
  { conditionName: 'Right Knee', rating: 30, extremity: 'right', serviceConnected: true }
];

const result = calculateCombinedRating(disabilities);
// result.roundedRating = 90
// result.bilateralFactor = 5
// result.calculations = [detailed steps]
```

### Use Transition Engine

```typescript
import { evaluateTransitionStatus, generateTAPChecklist, getTransitionBenefits } from './services/TransitionEngine';

const status = evaluateTransitionStatus(profile);
// status.isTransitioning = true
// status.daysUntilSeparation = 120
// status.completionPercentage = 40

const checklist = generateTAPChecklist(profile);
// 15 tasks across 6 categories

const benefits = getTransitionBenefits(profile);
// Education, employment, health, housing, business benefits
```

---

## UX Requirements Compliance

✅ **One question per screen** (in wizard)
✅ **Mobile-first design** (responsive grids, collapsible nav)
✅ **ADA-compliant** (semantic HTML, ARIA labels)
✅ **Plain language** (no jargon, explanations provided)
✅ **Autosave and resume** (localStorage in wizard)
✅ **Card-based layouts** (all modules use cards)
✅ **Veteran enters data once** (global data store)
✅ **Real-time updates** (useEffect hooks)

---

## Development Standards

### Code Quality
- ✅ TypeScript with strict types
- ✅ Modular, testable functions
- ✅ Comments on non-trivial logic
- ✅ Consistent naming conventions
- ✅ Production-ready code

### Legal Annotations
```typescript
/**
 * Legal Compliance:
 * - Does NOT file claims or transmit data
 * - Educational and preparatory only
 * - All extractions are suggestions, not absolute truth
 */
```

### Error Handling
```typescript
try {
  const text = await extractTextFromFile(file);
  extractionLog.push(`Text extracted: ${text.length} characters`);
} catch (error) {
  extractionLog.push(`Error during extraction: ${error}`);
  result.extractionConfidence = 'low';
}
```

---

## Next Steps for Implementation

### Immediate Actions

1. **Integrate Scanners into Wizard**
   - Add DD214 upload step
   - Add Rating Narrative upload step
   - Wire extraction to profile updates

2. **Add Route for Disabilities Module**
   ```typescript
   <Route path="/disabilities" element={<DisabilitiesModule onComplete={() => navigate('/dashboard')} />} />
   ```

3. **Replace or Rename MatrixDashboard**
   - Option A: Rename `/matrix` to `/dashboard`
   - Option B: Keep both, use UnifiedDashboard as primary

4. **Implement OCR Library**
   - Install Tesseract.js: `npm install tesseract.js`
   - Or integrate cloud API (AWS Textract, Google Vision)

### Enhancement Opportunities

1. **Lay Statement Builder**
   - Guided questions
   - Draft generation
   - Always editable

2. **Veteran Business Directory**
   - Search VSOs by state
   - Veteran-owned businesses
   - State veteran offices

3. **Export/Download Features**
   - PDF summary generation
   - Evidence checklist printout
   - Claims preparation packet

4. **Testing**
   - Unit tests for VA math
   - Integration tests for scanners
   - E2E tests for complete workflow

---

## Conclusion

The VetsReady Matrix System now includes:

✅ DD214 Scanner with OCR-ready extraction
✅ Rating Narrative Scanner with condition extraction
✅ VA Math utilities with bilateral factor
✅ Disabilities & Ratings Module with card-based UI
✅ Transition & Separation Engine with TAP checklist
✅ Unified Dashboard displaying ALL 8+ matrix outputs

**All modules comply with legal requirements:**
- Never files claims
- Educational only
- Redirects to VA.gov
- Requires veteran confirmation
- Plain language explanations

**Architecture follows "single source of truth" principle:**
- VeteranProfileContext holds all data
- Matrix Engine evaluates once per change
- All modules read from same store
- Real-time updates across platform

The platform is **production-ready** and follows all development standards specified in the comprehensive instructions.

Commit message:

chore: rename Vets Ready and check six to Rally Forge

docs/MATRIX_SYSTEM_COMPLETE.md, after:

# Rally Forge MATRIX SYSTEM - COMPLETE IMPLEMENTATION GUIDE

## Overview

This document describes the complete rallyforge Matrix System implementation, built according to the comprehensive development instructions provided. The system is a unified, matrix-driven, veteran-focused claim-preparation, benefits-discovery, and transition-support platform.

## Legal Compliance

✅ **NEVER** files VA claims or transmits claim data
✅ **NEVER** implies government affiliation or endorsement
✅ **ALWAYS** redirects to VA.gov for actual claim filing
✅ **EDUCATIONAL AND PREPARATORY ONLY**
✅ Does not provide legal or medical advice
✅ Does not generate VA forms or simulate VA systems

---

## Architecture Principles

### Single Source of Truth
- **Global Data Store**: VeteranProfileContext holds ALL veteran data
- **One-Time Entry**: Veteran enters information ONCE
- **Automatic Population**: All modules read from same data store
- **Real-Time Updates**: Changes propagate instantly across all modules

### Matrix Engine
- **Centralized Evaluation**: Single engine processes profile once
- **Eight Outputs**: Benefits, Theories, Evidence, CFR, Secondary, Strategy, Summary, Transition
- **Dynamic Calculation**: Re-evaluates on every profile change

---

## Core Modules

### 1. DD214 Scanner (`/src/services/DD214Scanner.ts`)

**Purpose**: Extract veteran service information from DD214 documents

**Extracts**:
- Branch of service
- Entry and separation dates
- Character of service
- Separation code and narrative reason
- Pay grade and rank
- Awards and decorations
- Combat indicators

**Key Features**:
- Non-destructive (requires user confirmation)
- Extraction confidence scoring (high/medium/low)
- Detailed extraction logs
- Handles PDF and image files
- Ready for OCR library integration (Tesseract.js, AWS Textract, etc.)

**Compliance**:
```typescript
// All extractions require veteran review
extractionLog.push('Extraction requires user confirmation');
result.requiresReview = true;
```

---

### 2. Rating Narrative Scanner (`/src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts`)

**Purpose**: Extract condition, rating, and status information from VA Rating Decision documents

**Extracts**:
- Service-connected conditions with ratings
- Denied conditions
- P&T (Permanent and Total) status
- TDIU (Total Disability Individual Unemployability) indicators
- SMC (Special Monthly Compensation) level and reason
- Bilateral conditions
- Diagnostic codes
- Evidence references
- C&P exam dates

**Key Features**:
- Ignores irrelevant narrative text
- Highlights extracted data for confirmation
- Maps conditions to Disabilities module
- Never assumes correctness - always allows editing

**Compliance**:
```typescript
// Non-destructive extraction
result.requiresReview = true;
extractionLog.push('All extractions must be confirmed by veteran');
```

---

### 3. VA Math Utilities (`/src/utils/VAMath.ts`)

**Purpose**: Implement official VA combined rating calculation formulas

**Implements**:
- **Combined Rating Formula**: `100 - [(100 - R1) × (100 - R2) × ... / 100^n]`
- **Bilateral Factor**: 10% bonus for paired extremities (arms, legs)
- **Rounding Rules**: Round to nearest 10% (≥5 rounds up, <5 rounds down)
- **Rating Needed Calculator**: Calculates what rating needed to reach target

**Example Calculation**:
```
Veteran has:
- PTSD: 70%
- Tinnitus: 10%
- Left Knee: 20%
- Right Knee: 30%

Step 1: Sort highest to lowest
  1. PTSD: 70%
  2. Right Knee: 30%
  3. Left Knee: 20%
  4. Tinnitus: 10%

Step 2: Apply bilateral factor (both knees)
  Bilateral = (30% + 20%) × 10% = 5%

Step 3: Calculate combined rating
  100% efficiency
  After 70%: 30% efficiency
  After 30%: 21% efficiency
  After 20%: 16.8% efficiency
  After 10%: 15.12% efficiency
  After 5%: 14.364% efficiency

  Combined = 100 - 14.364 = 85.636%

Step 4: Round to nearest 10%
  85.636% → 90%
```

**Compliance**:
```typescript
const explanation = `IMPORTANT: This is an educational estimate only.
Your official rating is determined by the VA. The VA uses a combined
rating table found in 38 CFR §4.25.`;
```

---

### 4. Disabilities Module (`/src/components/DisabilitiesModule.tsx`)

**Purpose**: Card-based UI for entering conditions and viewing combined rating

**Features**:
- Add/Edit/Delete individual conditions
- Per-condition fields:
  - Condition name
  - VA rating (10% increments only)
  - Service-connected status
  - Body part/extremity
  - Paired extremity indicator
  - Diagnostic code
- Real-time combined rating calculation
- Bilateral factor display
- Detailed VA math breakdown
- Plain language explanations

**UX Requirements**:
- Mobile-first responsive design
- ADA-compliant
- Card-based layout
- Modal-based condition entry
- Visual rating display (large number)

**Validation**:
```typescript
// Ensure valid VA rating
if (!isValidVARating(newCondition.rating)) {
  alert('VA ratings must be in 10% increments (0, 10, 20, ... 100)');
  return;
}
```

---

### 5. Transition Engine (`/src/services/TransitionEngine.ts`)

**Purpose**: Provide transition benefits, resources, and TAP-like checklists

**Evaluates**:
- Transition status (transitioning/active/veteran)
- Days until separation
- TAP checklist completion percentage

**Generates**:
1. **TAP Checklist** (15 tasks across 6 categories):
   - Healthcare: Enroll in VA, separation assessment, medical records
   - Disability: File BDD claim, attend briefing, gather evidence
   - Records: Request DD214, service records
   - Education: Apply for GI Bill, explore VET TEC
   - Career: Update resume, register with V4V
   - Financial: Create budget, understand TSP

2. **Transition Benefits**:
   - Education: Post-9/11 GI Bill, MGIB, VET TEC
   - Employment: VR&E, VA for Veterans
   - Healthcare: VA Healthcare, TRICARE
   - Housing: VA Home Loan
   - Business: Veteran Entrepreneur Portal, Boots to Business

3. **Healthcare Transition Guidance**:
   - Timeline (start 180 days before separation)
   - 7-step process
   - Official resources

**Compliance**:
```typescript
// All resources link to official .gov sites
officialUrl: 'https://www.va.gov/education/gi-bill-comparison-tool/'
```

---

### 6. Unified Dashboard (`/src/components/UnifiedDashboard.tsx`)

**Purpose**: Central hub displaying ALL Matrix Engine outputs in one view

**Required Sections** (per instructions):

#### Section 1: Profile Overview
- Branch, service dates, discharge type
- Combat service, state, dependents
- P&T, TDIU, SMC status

#### Section 2: Disabilities & Ratings Summary
- Combined rating display (large visual)
- Bilateral factor badge
- All conditions with ratings
- Detailed VA math calculation

#### Section 3: Benefits Matrix
- Total benefits count
- Federal vs. State breakdown
- Per-benefit cards with descriptions
- Official resource links

#### Section 4: Theories of Entitlement
- 8 theories with applies/may-apply badges
- Educational explanations
- Evidence needed per theory
- CFR legal references
- Strength indicators

#### Section 5: Evidence & Tasks
- 5 evidence categories
- Required vs. optional evidence
- Organized by category

#### Section 6: CFR Diagnostic Codes
- 38 CFR Part 4 codes
- Current and next rating levels
- Criteria for each rating

#### Section 7: Secondary Condition Finder
- Primary → Secondary pairs
- Medical nexus explanations
- Strength ratings

#### Section 8: Transition Resources (if applicable)
- Days until separation countdown
- TAP checklist progress bar
- Transition benefits grid

#### Section 9: Summary + VA.gov Redirect
- Profile summary
- Next steps
- **"File Your Claim on VA.gov" button**
- Disclaimer

**Dynamic Updates**:
```typescript
// Re-evaluate matrix whenever profile changes
useEffect(() => {
  const output = evaluateMatrix(profile);
  setMatrixOutput(output);
  if (profile.branch) {
    applyBranchTheme(profile.branch);
  }
}, [profile]);
```

**Compliance**:
```typescript
<p className="disclaimer">
  <strong>Important:</strong> rallyforge does not file claims.
  We prepare and educate only. You must file your claim directly with the VA.
</p>
```

---

## Data Flow

### Intake Workflow

```
1. DD214 Upload
   ↓ (OCR extraction)
2. Review Extracted Data
   ↓ (confirm/edit)
3. Rating Narrative Upload
   ↓ (OCR extraction)
4. Review Extracted Data
   ↓ (confirm/edit)
5. Manual Fallback Inputs
   ↓ (fill any gaps)
6. Disabilities & Ratings Entry
   ↓ (VA math calculation)
7. Matrix Engine Evaluation
   ↓ (8 outputs generated)
8. Unified Dashboard
   ↓ (all outputs displayed)
9. Summary + VA.gov Redirect
```

### Global Data Store (VeteranProfileContext)

```typescript
{
  // Basic Profile
  branch: string
  serviceStartDate: string
  serviceEndDate: string
  dischargeType: string
  veteranStatus: string
  state: string
  dependents: number

  // DD214-Derived
  separationCode: string
  rank: string
  awards: string[]
  hasCombatService: boolean

  // Rating Narrative-Derived
  rating: number
  isPermanentAndTotal: boolean
  hasTDIU: boolean
  hasSMC: boolean

  // Disabilities
  disabilities: DisabilityRating[]

  // Transition
  isTransitioning: boolean
  separationDate: string
}
```

---

## File Structure

```
rally-forge-frontend/
├── src/
│   ├── services/
│   │   ├── DD214Scanner.ts                 ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── RatingNarrativeScanner.ts       ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── TransitionEngine.ts             ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── MatrixEngine.ts                 ✅ EXISTING
│   │   └── BranchThemes.ts                 ✅ EXISTING
│   ├── utils/
│   │   └── VAMath.ts                       ✅ NEW
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── DisabilitiesModule.tsx          ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── UnifiedDashboard.tsx            ✅ NEW
│   │   ├── MatrixDashboard.tsx             ✅ EXISTING
│   │   └── ClaimsHub.tsx                   ✅ EXISTING
│   └── context/
│       └── VeteranProfileContext.tsx       ✅ EXISTING
```

---

## Integration Guide

### Add Unified Dashboard to App.tsx

```typescript
import UnifiedDashboard from './components/UnifiedDashboard';

<Route path="/dashboard" element={<UnifiedDashboard />} />
```

### Add Disabilities Module to App.tsx

```typescript
import DisabilitiesModule from './components/DisabilitiesModule';

<Route path="/disabilities" element={<DisabilitiesModule />} />
```

### Use Document Scanners

```typescript
import { extractDD214Data, mapDD214ToProfile } from './services/DD214Scanner';
import { extractRatingNarrativeData, mapRatingNarrativeToProfile } from './services/RatingNarrativeScanner';

// Upload DD214
const file = event.target.files[0];
const extractedData = await extractDD214Data(file);

// Show extracted data to veteran for review
setExtractedDD214(extractedData);

// After veteran confirms
const confirmedFields = ['branch', 'entryDate', 'separationDate'];
const updates = mapDD214ToProfile(extractedData, confirmedFields);
updateProfile(updates);
```

### Use VA Math

```typescript
import { calculateCombinedRating, roundToNearest10 } from './utils/VAMath';

const disabilities = [
  { conditionName: 'PTSD', rating: 70, serviceConnected: true },
  { conditionName: 'Tinnitus', rating: 10, serviceConnected: true },
  { conditionName: 'Left Knee', rating: 20, extremity: 'left', serviceConnected: true },
  { conditionName: 'Right Knee', rating: 30, extremity: 'right', serviceConnected: true }
];

const result = calculateCombinedRating(disabilities);
// result.roundedRating = 90
// result.bilateralFactor = 5
// result.calculations = [detailed steps]
```

### Use Transition Engine

```typescript
import { evaluateTransitionStatus, generateTAPChecklist, getTransitionBenefits } from './services/TransitionEngine';

const status = evaluateTransitionStatus(profile);
// status.isTransitioning = true
// status.daysUntilSeparation = 120
// status.completionPercentage = 40

const checklist = generateTAPChecklist(profile);
// 15 tasks across 6 categories

const benefits = getTransitionBenefits(profile);
// Education, employment, health, housing, business benefits
```

---

## UX Requirements Compliance

✅ **One question per screen** (in wizard)
✅ **Mobile-first design** (responsive grids, collapsible nav)
✅ **ADA-compliant** (semantic HTML, ARIA labels)
✅ **Plain language** (no jargon, explanations provided)
✅ **Autosave and resume** (localStorage in wizard)
✅ **Card-based layouts** (all modules use cards)
✅ **Veteran enters data once** (global data store)
✅ **Real-time updates** (useEffect hooks)

---

## Development Standards

### Code Quality
- ✅ TypeScript with strict types
- ✅ Modular, testable functions
- ✅ Comments on non-trivial logic
- ✅ Consistent naming conventions
- ✅ Production-ready code

### Legal Annotations
```typescript
/**
 * Legal Compliance:
 * - Does NOT file claims or transmit data
 * - Educational and preparatory only
 * - All extractions are suggestions, not absolute truth
 */
```

### Error Handling
```typescript
try {
  const text = await extractTextFromFile(file);
  extractionLog.push(`Text extracted: ${text.length} characters`);
} catch (error) {
  extractionLog.push(`Error during extraction: ${error}`);
  result.extractionConfidence = 'low';
}
```

---

## Next Steps for Implementation

### Immediate Actions

1. **Integrate Scanners into Wizard**
   - Add DD214 upload step
   - Add Rating Narrative upload step
   - Wire extraction to profile updates

2. **Add Route for Disabilities Module**
   ```typescript
   <Route path="/disabilities" element={<DisabilitiesModule onComplete={() => navigate('/dashboard')} />} />
   ```

3. **Replace or Rename MatrixDashboard**
   - Option A: Rename `/matrix` to `/dashboard`
   - Option B: Keep both, use UnifiedDashboard as primary

4. **Implement OCR Library**
   - Install Tesseract.js: `npm install tesseract.js`
   - Or integrate cloud API (AWS Textract, Google Vision)

### Enhancement Opportunities

1. **Lay Statement Builder**
   - Guided questions
   - Draft generation
   - Always editable

2. **Veteran Business Directory**
   - Search VSOs by state
   - Veteran-owned businesses
   - State veteran offices

3. **Export/Download Features**
   - PDF summary generation
   - Evidence checklist printout
   - Claims preparation packet

4. **Testing**
   - Unit tests for VA math
   - Integration tests for scanners
   - E2E tests for complete workflow

---

## Conclusion

The rallyforge Matrix System now includes:

✅ DD214 Scanner with OCR-ready extraction
✅ Rating Narrative Scanner with condition extraction
✅ VA Math utilities with bilateral factor
✅ Disabilities & Ratings Module with card-based UI
✅ Transition & Separation Engine with TAP checklist
✅ Unified Dashboard displaying ALL 8+ matrix outputs

**All modules comply with legal requirements:**
- Never files claims
- Educational only
- Redirects to VA.gov
- Requires veteran confirmation
- Plain language explanations

**Architecture follows "single source of truth" principle:**
- VeteranProfileContext holds all data
- Matrix Engine evaluates once per change
- All modules read from same store
- Real-time updates across platform

The platform is **production-ready** and follows all development standards specified in the comprehensive instructions.
