docs/MATRIX_ARCHITECTURE_GUIDE.md, before:

# VetsReady Matrix Architecture - Complete Guide

## Overview

The VetsReady platform has evolved from standalone pages into a **unified matrix architecture** where all modules are interconnected views of the same veteran profile data. This creates a seamless, dynamic experience where updating your profile instantly updates all outputs across the entire platform.

---

## Core Architecture

### 1. **Single Source of Truth: VeteranProfile**

All data flows from `VeteranProfileContext.tsx`:

```typescript
- Branch of Service
- VA Disability Rating (0-100%)
- Service-Connected Conditions
- Combat Service
- Deployments
- Marital Status / Dependents
- State of Residence
- Special Statuses (P&T, TDIU, SMC)
- And 30+ other fields
```

**Key Principle:** Enter data once, use everywhere.

### 2. **MatrixEngine: The Evaluation Core**

`MatrixEngine.ts` processes the veteran profile and generates **8 interconnected outputs**:

#### Outputs Generated:

1. **Benefits Matrix** - Federal & State benefits eligibility
2. **Theories of Entitlement** - Legal theories for claims (8 theories)
3. **Evidence Requirements** - Comprehensive checklists (5 categories)
4. **CFR Diagnostic Codes** - 38 CFR Part 4 rating criteria
5. **Secondary Conditions** - Related conditions with medical nexus
6. **Claim Strategy** - Personalized claim plan
7. **Profile Score** - Completeness percentage
8. **Missing Fields** - What data is still needed

### 3. **Branch Theming System**

`BranchThemes.ts` provides visual identity for 6 military branches:

- **Army:** Olive drab, black, gold
- **Navy:** Navy blue, deep navy, gold
- **Air Force:** Air Force blue, steel blue, silver
- **Marine Corps:** Scarlet red, dark red, gold
- **Coast Guard:** Coast Guard blue, white, orange
- **Space Force:** Black, dark gray, silver

**Theming applies to:**
- Backgrounds & gradients
- Buttons & cards
- Navigation & footer
- All UI components

---

## Page Structure

### `/claims` - Claims Hub (ClaimsHub.tsx)

**Purpose:** Central hub for claim preparation

**Features:**
- Hero section with branch theming
- Profile completeness alert
- Wizard launcher (start/resume)
- 6 quick-access tools:
  - Disability Rating Calculator
  - CFR Diagnostic Code Viewer
  - Evidence Checklist
  - Lay Statement Builder
  - Secondary Condition Finder
  - Theories of Entitlement
- Benefits Matrix preview
- Educational FAQ section
- VA.gov redirect button

**User Flow:**
1. Select branch → Theme applies
2. View profile completeness
3. Launch wizard or use quick tools
4. View benefits preview
5. File on VA.gov

### `/matrix` - Matrix Dashboard (MatrixDashboard.tsx)

**Purpose:** Unified dashboard where all modules update dynamically

**8 Tabs:**

#### Tab 1: Profile
- Edit veteran information
- Live completeness score
- Missing fields alert
- Branch selection (applies theme)
- Rating slider (0-100%)
- Combat/deployment status
- P&T, TDIU, SMC checkboxes

#### Tab 2: Benefits
- Federal benefits list
- State benefits list
- Total count
- Detailed descriptions

#### Tab 3: Theories of Entitlement
- Direct Service Connection
- Secondary Service Connection
- Aggravation
- Presumptive (Combat)
- Presumptive (PACT Act)
- P&T Status
- TDIU
- SMC

**Each theory shows:**
- Applies: Yes/No with reason
- Strength: Strong/Moderate/Weak
- Required evidence list
- CFR legal basis

#### Tab 4: Evidence
- 5 evidence categories:
  - Service Connection
  - Diagnosis
  - Nexus
  - Severity
  - Condition-Specific
- Required vs. Optional items
- Checklist format

#### Tab 5: CFR Codes
- Diagnostic codes for each condition
- Current rating criteria
- Next rating level
- Body system classification
- 38 CFR Part 4 reference

#### Tab 6: Secondary Conditions
- Primary → Secondary relationships
- Medical nexus explanation
- Strength rating (strong/moderate/possible)
- Based on medical research

#### Tab 7: Strategy
- Claim type (new/increase/secondary/supplemental)
- Primary condition
- Current → Target rating
- Step-by-step plan
- Key evidence needed
- Estimated timeline

#### Tab 8: Summary
- Metrics dashboard
- Download HTML summary
- File on VA.gov button

### `/wizard` - Complete Claim Wizard (CompleteClaimWizard.tsx)

**Purpose:** Guided 6-step claim preparation

**Steps:**
1. Veteran Basics
2. Disability Information
3. Symptoms & Evidence
4. Claim Goals
5. Benefits Matrix (auto-populated)
6. Claim Preparation Summary

**Features:**
- Visual progress bar
- Auto-save to localStorage
- Export HTML summary
- VA.gov redirect

### `/benefits-matrix` - Benefits Dashboard

**Purpose:** Full benefits matrix view

---

## Data Flow

```
VeteranProfile (Context)
       ↓
MatrixEngine.evaluateMatrix()
       ↓
MatrixOutput {
  benefits,
  theories,
  evidence,
  cfrCodes,
  secondaryConditions,
  strategy,
  profileScore,
  missingFields
}
       ↓
All Components (Real-time Updates)
```

**Key Principle:** Change profile → All outputs update instantly

---

## Theories of Entitlement (Detailed)

### 1. Direct Service Connection (38 CFR § 3.303)
**Applies if:** Condition occurred during active duty
**Evidence Required:**
- Service medical records
- In-service diagnosis or treatment
- Lay statements

### 2. Secondary Service Connection (38 CFR § 3.310)
**Applies if:** Existing service-connected condition causes new condition
**Evidence Required:**
- Medical nexus letter
- Treatment records
- Medical research

### 3. Aggravation (38 CFR § 3.306)
**Applies if:** Pre-existing condition worsened beyond natural progression
**Evidence Required:**
- Pre-service medical records
- In-service treatment records
- Medical opinion on worsening

### 4. Presumptive - Combat (38 CFR § 3.304(f))
**Applies if:** Combat veteran with qualifying condition
**Evidence Required:**
- DD-214 showing combat service
- Current diagnosis
- Lay statement

### 5. Presumptive - PACT Act (38 CFR § 3.309)
**Applies if:** Service in Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan, Gulf War, Southwest Asia
**Evidence Required:**
- DD-214 showing qualifying dates/locations
- Current diagnosis (no nexus required)

### 6. Permanent & Total (38 CFR § 3.340)
**Applies if:** 100% scheduler or TDIU rating
**Unlocks:**
- ChampVA (family healthcare)
- DEA (education benefits)
- Property tax exemptions

### 7. TDIU (38 CFR § 4.16)
**Applies if:** 60%+ rating and unable to work
**Evidence Required:**
- Employment records
- Medical evidence of unemployability
- VA Form 21-8940
- Employer statements

### 8. SMC (38 CFR § 3.350)
**Applies if:** Loss of use, blindness, aid & attendance needs
**Evidence Required:**
- Medical evidence of anatomical loss
- Doctor statement
- ADL assessment

---

## Evidence Categories

### 1. Service Connection
- DD-214
- Service medical records
- Personnel records
- Combat documentation
- Deployment records

### 2. Diagnosis
- Current diagnosis
- Diagnostic tests (X-ray, MRI, etc.)
- Treatment records (2 years minimum)
- Prescription records

### 3. Nexus
- Medical nexus letter (IMO/DBQ)
- Lay statement
- Buddy statements
- Family statements

### 4. Severity
- DBQ (Disability Benefits Questionnaire)
- Range of motion measurements
- Functional impact statement
- Employment impact records

### 5. Condition-Specific
- Varies by condition
- Generated from CFR database
- Tailored to claim type

---

## CFR Diagnostic Codes (Examples)

### Mental Health
- **9411:** PTSD (0%, 10%, 30%, 50%, 70%, 100%)
- **9434:** Depression (0%, 10%, 30%, 50%, 70%, 100%)
- **9440:** Anxiety (0%, 10%, 30%, 50%, 70%, 100%)

### Musculoskeletal
- **5003:** Degenerative Arthritis (10%, 20%)
- **5260:** Limitation of Knee Motion (0%, 10%, 20%, 30%)

### Respiratory
- **6847:** Sleep Apnea (0%, 30%, 50%, 100%)
- **6600:** Asthma (0%, 10%, 30%, 60%, 100%)

### Neurological
- **8100:** Migraines (0%, 10%, 30%, 50%)
- **6260:** Tinnitus (10% only)
- **8045:** TBI Residuals (0%, 10%, 40%, 70%, 100%)

### Digestive
- **7319:** IBS (0%, 10%, 30%)
- **7346:** GERD (10%, 30%, 60%)

### Cardiovascular
- **7101:** Hypertension (0%, 10%, 20%, 40%, 60%)

### Skin
- **7800:** Scars (10%, 20%, 30%, 40%)

---

## Secondary Conditions (Common Pairs)

### PTSD →
- Sleep Apnea (Strong nexus)
- Depression (Strong nexus)
- Migraines (Moderate nexus)
- GERD (Moderate nexus)
- IBS (Moderate nexus)

### Sleep Apnea →
- Hypertension (Strong nexus)
- GERD (Moderate nexus)
- Depression (Moderate nexus)

### Knee →
- Lower Back (Strong nexus - compensatory gait)
- Hip (Strong nexus - weight distribution)
- Ankle (Moderate nexus)

### TBI →
- Migraines (Strong nexus)
- Depression (Strong nexus)
- Memory loss (Strong nexus)

---

## Claim Strategy Types

### New Claim
**Goal:** Establish service connection
**Steps:**
1. Gather service medical records
2. Obtain current diagnosis
3. Get medical nexus letter
4. Complete DBQ
5. Write lay statement
6. Submit on VA.gov

**Timeline:** 4-6 months

### Increase Claim
**Goal:** Document worsening condition
**Steps:**
1. Document worsening since last rating
2. Collect recent medical records (2 years)
3. Get updated DBQ
4. Obtain medical opinion on impact
5. Write lay statement on limitations
6. Submit increase claim

**Timeline:** 3-5 months

### Secondary Claim
**Goal:** Prove medical nexus
**Steps:**
1. Identify primary service-connected condition
2. Get current diagnosis for secondary
3. Obtain medical nexus letter
4. Gather treatment records
5. Complete DBQ
6. Submit secondary claim

**Timeline:** 5-7 months

### Supplemental Claim
**Goal:** Submit new evidence
**Steps:**
1. Identify new evidence
2. Update medical records
3. Correct nexus if needed
4. Explain significance of new evidence
5. Submit supplemental claim

**Timeline:** 3-4 months

---

## Legal Compliance

### What VetsReady Does:
✅ Educational and preparatory tool
✅ Organizes claim information
✅ Provides CFR criteria guidance
✅ Generates evidence checklists
✅ Identifies potential benefits
✅ Suggests secondary conditions
✅ Exports claim preparation summary

### What VetsReady Does NOT Do:
❌ File VA claims
❌ Submit to VA systems
❌ Generate VA forms
❌ Provide legal advice
❌ Provide medical advice
❌ Guarantee benefits approval
❌ Represent veterans before VA

### Disclaimers:
- All claim filing happens on VA.gov
- VetsReady is not affiliated with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
- Platform is educational only
- Consult with VSO or attorney for legal advice
- Consult with doctor for medical advice

---

## Accessibility

### WCAG 2.1 AA Compliant:
- ✅ All form inputs have labels/aria-labels
- ✅ Keyboard navigable
- ✅ Screen reader optimized
- ✅ Color contrast meets standards
- ✅ Mobile-first responsive design
- ✅ Large touch targets (44px minimum)
- ✅ One concept per screen
- ✅ Plain language throughout

---

## Technical Implementation

### Key Files:

**Services:**
- `MatrixEngine.ts` - Core evaluation logic
- `BranchThemes.ts` - Theming system
- `BenefitsEvaluator.ts` - Benefits rules engine
- `ClaimPreparationEngine.ts` - Evidence & CFR logic

**Components:**
- `MatrixDashboard.tsx` - Unified 8-tab dashboard
- `CompleteClaimWizard.tsx` - 6-step wizard
- `BenefitsDashboard.tsx` - Benefits matrix view

**Pages:**
- `ClaimsHub.tsx` - Claims page hub
- `Home.tsx` - Landing page

**Contexts:**
- `VeteranProfileContext.tsx` - Global profile state
- `SettingsContext.tsx` - User preferences

**Data:**
- `benefitsRules.json` - 18 benefits rules
- `cfrDiagnosticCodes.json` - 17 CFR codes

### Routes:
- `/` - Home
- `/claims` - Claims Hub
- `/matrix` - Matrix Dashboard
- `/wizard` - Claim Wizard
- `/benefits-matrix` - Benefits Matrix
- `/profile` - Profile Setup

---

## User Workflows

### Workflow 1: New Veteran
1. Visit `/claims`
2. Complete profile (branch, rating, state)
3. Launch wizard
4. Complete 6 steps
5. View benefits matrix
6. Download summary
7. File on VA.gov

### Workflow 2: Existing Veteran (Increase)
1. Visit `/matrix`
2. Tab 1: Update profile (higher rating)
3. Tab 3: Review theories
4. Tab 5: Check CFR for next rating
5. Tab 7: View increase strategy
6. Tab 8: Download summary
7. File on VA.gov

### Workflow 3: Secondary Condition Research
1. Visit `/claims`
2. Click "Secondary Condition Finder"
3. View primary → secondary relationships
4. Review medical nexus explanations
5. Check CFR codes
6. Generate evidence checklist
7. File on VA.gov

---

## Future Enhancements

### Short-Term:
- PDF export (in addition to HTML)
- Email summary delivery
- More CFR codes (50+ conditions)
- Mobile app version

### Medium-Term:
- 50-state benefits database
- County-level benefits
- VSO integration
- Claim status tracking

### Long-Term:
- AI claim analyzer
- Evidence scanner (upload medical records)
- Multi-language support
- Veteran community forum

---

## Support Resources

### For Veterans:
- Platform includes help text throughout
- FAQ sections on each page
- Legal disclaimers explain limitations
- VA.gov links for official filing

### For Developers:
- All code commented
- TypeScript typed
- Component documentation
- API reference in code

---

## Success Metrics

### Technical:
- 0 TypeScript compilation errors
- 0 runtime errors
- 100% WCAG 2.1 AA accessibility
- 100% legal compliance

### Functional:
- 6-step wizard operational
- 8-tab matrix dashboard functional
- 17 CFR codes in database
- 8 theories of entitlement
- 18 benefits rules
- 6 branch themes

### User Experience:
- Single data entry (profile)
- Real-time updates across all modules
- Branch theming enhances identity
- Mobile-first responsive
- Fast load times (<1 second)

---

## Version History

**v1.0.0** - Benefits Matrix Engine
- JSON rules database
- Evaluation engine
- React dashboard

**v2.0.0** - Complete Claim Wizard
- 6-step wizard
- CFR database
- Evidence checklists
- Export functionality

**v3.0.0** - Matrix Architecture ⭐ CURRENT
- Unified MatrixEngine
- Branch theming system
- Claims Hub
- Theories of Entitlement
- Matrix Dashboard (8 tabs)
- Interconnected modules
- Real-time updates

---

## Getting Started

### For Users:
1. Visit http://localhost:5173/claims
2. Select your branch
3. Complete your profile
4. Explore the matrix
5. Prepare your claim
6. File on VA.gov

### For Developers:
```bash
cd "c:\Dev\Vets Ready\vets-ready-frontend"
npm run dev
```

Then visit:
- Claims Hub: http://localhost:5173/claims
- Matrix Dashboard: http://localhost:5173/matrix
- Claim Wizard: http://localhost:5173/wizard
- Benefits Matrix: http://localhost:5173/benefits-matrix

---

**VetsReady Matrix Architecture - Serving Those Who Served** 🎖️

Commit message:

chore: rename Vets Ready and check six to Rally Forge

docs/MATRIX_ARCHITECTURE_GUIDE.md, after:

# rallyforge Matrix Architecture - Complete Guide

## Overview

The rallyforge platform has evolved from standalone pages into a **unified matrix architecture** where all modules are interconnected views of the same veteran profile data. This creates a seamless, dynamic experience where updating your profile instantly updates all outputs across the entire platform.

---

## Core Architecture

### 1. **Single Source of Truth: VeteranProfile**

All data flows from `VeteranProfileContext.tsx`:

```typescript
- Branch of Service
- VA Disability Rating (0-100%)
- Service-Connected Conditions
- Combat Service
- Deployments
- Marital Status / Dependents
- State of Residence
- Special Statuses (P&T, TDIU, SMC)
- And 30+ other fields
```

**Key Principle:** Enter data once, use everywhere.

### 2. **MatrixEngine: The Evaluation Core**

`MatrixEngine.ts` processes the veteran profile and generates **8 interconnected outputs**:

#### Outputs Generated:

1. **Benefits Matrix** - Federal & State benefits eligibility
2. **Theories of Entitlement** - Legal theories for claims (8 theories)
3. **Evidence Requirements** - Comprehensive checklists (5 categories)
4. **CFR Diagnostic Codes** - 38 CFR Part 4 rating criteria
5. **Secondary Conditions** - Related conditions with medical nexus
6. **Claim Strategy** - Personalized claim plan
7. **Profile Score** - Completeness percentage
8. **Missing Fields** - What data is still needed

### 3. **Branch Theming System**

`BranchThemes.ts` provides visual identity for 6 military branches:

- **Army:** Olive drab, black, gold
- **Navy:** Navy blue, deep navy, gold
- **Air Force:** Air Force blue, steel blue, silver
- **Marine Corps:** Scarlet red, dark red, gold
- **Coast Guard:** Coast Guard blue, white, orange
- **Space Force:** Black, dark gray, silver

**Theming applies to:**
- Backgrounds & gradients
- Buttons & cards
- Navigation & footer
- All UI components

---

## Page Structure

### `/claims` - Claims Hub (ClaimsHub.tsx)

**Purpose:** Central hub for claim preparation

**Features:**
- Hero section with branch theming
- Profile completeness alert
- Wizard launcher (start/resume)
- 6 quick-access tools:
  - Disability Rating Calculator
  - CFR Diagnostic Code Viewer
  - Evidence Checklist
  - Lay Statement Builder
  - Secondary Condition Finder
  - Theories of Entitlement
- Benefits Matrix preview
- Educational FAQ section
- VA.gov redirect button

**User Flow:**
1. Select branch → Theme applies
2. View profile completeness
3. Launch wizard or use quick tools
4. View benefits preview
5. File on VA.gov

### `/matrix` - Matrix Dashboard (MatrixDashboard.tsx)

**Purpose:** Unified dashboard where all modules update dynamically

**8 Tabs:**

#### Tab 1: Profile
- Edit veteran information
- Live completeness score
- Missing fields alert
- Branch selection (applies theme)
- Rating slider (0-100%)
- Combat/deployment status
- P&T, TDIU, SMC checkboxes

#### Tab 2: Benefits
- Federal benefits list
- State benefits list
- Total count
- Detailed descriptions

#### Tab 3: Theories of Entitlement
- Direct Service Connection
- Secondary Service Connection
- Aggravation
- Presumptive (Combat)
- Presumptive (PACT Act)
- P&T Status
- TDIU
- SMC

**Each theory shows:**
- Applies: Yes/No with reason
- Strength: Strong/Moderate/Weak
- Required evidence list
- CFR legal basis

#### Tab 4: Evidence
- 5 evidence categories:
  - Service Connection
  - Diagnosis
  - Nexus
  - Severity
  - Condition-Specific
- Required vs. Optional items
- Checklist format

#### Tab 5: CFR Codes
- Diagnostic codes for each condition
- Current rating criteria
- Next rating level
- Body system classification
- 38 CFR Part 4 reference

#### Tab 6: Secondary Conditions
- Primary → Secondary relationships
- Medical nexus explanation
- Strength rating (strong/moderate/possible)
- Based on medical research

#### Tab 7: Strategy
- Claim type (new/increase/secondary/supplemental)
- Primary condition
- Current → Target rating
- Step-by-step plan
- Key evidence needed
- Estimated timeline

#### Tab 8: Summary
- Metrics dashboard
- Download HTML summary
- File on VA.gov button

### `/wizard` - Complete Claim Wizard (CompleteClaimWizard.tsx)

**Purpose:** Guided 6-step claim preparation

**Steps:**
1. Veteran Basics
2. Disability Information
3. Symptoms & Evidence
4. Claim Goals
5. Benefits Matrix (auto-populated)
6. Claim Preparation Summary

**Features:**
- Visual progress bar
- Auto-save to localStorage
- Export HTML summary
- VA.gov redirect

### `/benefits-matrix` - Benefits Dashboard

**Purpose:** Full benefits matrix view

---

## Data Flow

```
VeteranProfile (Context)
       ↓
MatrixEngine.evaluateMatrix()
       ↓
MatrixOutput {
  benefits,
  theories,
  evidence,
  cfrCodes,
  secondaryConditions,
  strategy,
  profileScore,
  missingFields
}
       ↓
All Components (Real-time Updates)
```

**Key Principle:** Change profile → All outputs update instantly

---

## Theories of Entitlement (Detailed)

### 1. Direct Service Connection (38 CFR § 3.303)
**Applies if:** Condition occurred during active duty
**Evidence Required:**
- Service medical records
- In-service diagnosis or treatment
- Lay statements

### 2. Secondary Service Connection (38 CFR § 3.310)
**Applies if:** Existing service-connected condition causes new condition
**Evidence Required:**
- Medical nexus letter
- Treatment records
- Medical research

### 3. Aggravation (38 CFR § 3.306)
**Applies if:** Pre-existing condition worsened beyond natural progression
**Evidence Required:**
- Pre-service medical records
- In-service treatment records
- Medical opinion on worsening

### 4. Presumptive - Combat (38 CFR § 3.304(f))
**Applies if:** Combat veteran with qualifying condition
**Evidence Required:**
- DD-214 showing combat service
- Current diagnosis
- Lay statement

### 5. Presumptive - PACT Act (38 CFR § 3.309)
**Applies if:** Service in Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan, Gulf War, Southwest Asia
**Evidence Required:**
- DD-214 showing qualifying dates/locations
- Current diagnosis (no nexus required)

### 6. Permanent & Total (38 CFR § 3.340)
**Applies if:** 100% scheduler or TDIU rating
**Unlocks:**
- ChampVA (family healthcare)
- DEA (education benefits)
- Property tax exemptions

### 7. TDIU (38 CFR § 4.16)
**Applies if:** 60%+ rating and unable to work
**Evidence Required:**
- Employment records
- Medical evidence of unemployability
- VA Form 21-8940
- Employer statements

### 8. SMC (38 CFR § 3.350)
**Applies if:** Loss of use, blindness, aid & attendance needs
**Evidence Required:**
- Medical evidence of anatomical loss
- Doctor statement
- ADL assessment

---

## Evidence Categories

### 1. Service Connection
- DD-214
- Service medical records
- Personnel records
- Combat documentation
- Deployment records

### 2. Diagnosis
- Current diagnosis
- Diagnostic tests (X-ray, MRI, etc.)
- Treatment records (2 years minimum)
- Prescription records

### 3. Nexus
- Medical nexus letter (IMO/DBQ)
- Lay statement
- Buddy statements
- Family statements

### 4. Severity
- DBQ (Disability Benefits Questionnaire)
- Range of motion measurements
- Functional impact statement
- Employment impact records

### 5. Condition-Specific
- Varies by condition
- Generated from CFR database
- Tailored to claim type

---

## CFR Diagnostic Codes (Examples)

### Mental Health
- **9411:** PTSD (0%, 10%, 30%, 50%, 70%, 100%)
- **9434:** Depression (0%, 10%, 30%, 50%, 70%, 100%)
- **9440:** Anxiety (0%, 10%, 30%, 50%, 70%, 100%)

### Musculoskeletal
- **5003:** Degenerative Arthritis (10%, 20%)
- **5260:** Limitation of Knee Motion (0%, 10%, 20%, 30%)

### Respiratory
- **6847:** Sleep Apnea (0%, 30%, 50%, 100%)
- **6600:** Asthma (0%, 10%, 30%, 60%, 100%)

### Neurological
- **8100:** Migraines (0%, 10%, 30%, 50%)
- **6260:** Tinnitus (10% only)
- **8045:** TBI Residuals (0%, 10%, 40%, 70%, 100%)

### Digestive
- **7319:** IBS (0%, 10%, 30%)
- **7346:** GERD (10%, 30%, 60%)

### Cardiovascular
- **7101:** Hypertension (0%, 10%, 20%, 40%, 60%)

### Skin
- **7800:** Scars (10%, 20%, 30%, 40%)

---

## Secondary Conditions (Common Pairs)

### PTSD →
- Sleep Apnea (Strong nexus)
- Depression (Strong nexus)
- Migraines (Moderate nexus)
- GERD (Moderate nexus)
- IBS (Moderate nexus)

### Sleep Apnea →
- Hypertension (Strong nexus)
- GERD (Moderate nexus)
- Depression (Moderate nexus)

### Knee →
- Lower Back (Strong nexus - compensatory gait)
- Hip (Strong nexus - weight distribution)
- Ankle (Moderate nexus)

### TBI →
- Migraines (Strong nexus)
- Depression (Strong nexus)
- Memory loss (Strong nexus)

---

## Claim Strategy Types

### New Claim
**Goal:** Establish service connection
**Steps:**
1. Gather service medical records
2. Obtain current diagnosis
3. Get medical nexus letter
4. Complete DBQ
5. Write lay statement
6. Submit on VA.gov

**Timeline:** 4-6 months

### Increase Claim
**Goal:** Document worsening condition
**Steps:**
1. Document worsening since last rating
2. Collect recent medical records (2 years)
3. Get updated DBQ
4. Obtain medical opinion on impact
5. Write lay statement on limitations
6. Submit increase claim

**Timeline:** 3-5 months

### Secondary Claim
**Goal:** Prove medical nexus
**Steps:**
1. Identify primary service-connected condition
2. Get current diagnosis for secondary
3. Obtain medical nexus letter
4. Gather treatment records
5. Complete DBQ
6. Submit secondary claim

**Timeline:** 5-7 months

### Supplemental Claim
**Goal:** Submit new evidence
**Steps:**
1. Identify new evidence
2. Update medical records
3. Correct nexus if needed
4. Explain significance of new evidence
5. Submit supplemental claim

**Timeline:** 3-4 months

---

## Legal Compliance

### What rallyforge Does:
✅ Educational and preparatory tool
✅ Organizes claim information
✅ Provides CFR criteria guidance
✅ Generates evidence checklists
✅ Identifies potential benefits
✅ Suggests secondary conditions
✅ Exports claim preparation summary

### What rallyforge Does NOT Do:
❌ File VA claims
❌ Submit to VA systems
❌ Generate VA forms
❌ Provide legal advice
❌ Provide medical advice
❌ Guarantee benefits approval
❌ Represent veterans before VA

### Disclaimers:
- All claim filing happens on VA.gov
- rallyforge is not affiliated with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs
- Platform is educational only
- Consult with VSO or attorney for legal advice
- Consult with doctor for medical advice

---

## Accessibility

### WCAG 2.1 AA Compliant:
- ✅ All form inputs have labels/aria-labels
- ✅ Keyboard navigable
- ✅ Screen reader optimized
- ✅ Color contrast meets standards
- ✅ Mobile-first responsive design
- ✅ Large touch targets (44px minimum)
- ✅ One concept per screen
- ✅ Plain language throughout

---

## Technical Implementation

### Key Files:

**Services:**
- `MatrixEngine.ts` - Core evaluation logic
- `BranchThemes.ts` - Theming system
- `BenefitsEvaluator.ts` - Benefits rules engine
- `ClaimPreparationEngine.ts` - Evidence & CFR logic

**Components:**
- `MatrixDashboard.tsx` - Unified 8-tab dashboard
- `CompleteClaimWizard.tsx` - 6-step wizard
- `BenefitsDashboard.tsx` - Benefits matrix view

**Pages:**
- `ClaimsHub.tsx` - Claims page hub
- `Home.tsx` - Landing page

**Contexts:**
- `VeteranProfileContext.tsx` - Global profile state
- `SettingsContext.tsx` - User preferences

**Data:**
- `benefitsRules.json` - 18 benefits rules
- `cfrDiagnosticCodes.json` - 17 CFR codes

### Routes:
- `/` - Home
- `/claims` - Claims Hub
- `/matrix` - Matrix Dashboard
- `/wizard` - Claim Wizard
- `/benefits-matrix` - Benefits Matrix
- `/profile` - Profile Setup

---

## User Workflows

### Workflow 1: New Veteran
1. Visit `/claims`
2. Complete profile (branch, rating, state)
3. Launch wizard
4. Complete 6 steps
5. View benefits matrix
6. Download summary
7. File on VA.gov

### Workflow 2: Existing Veteran (Increase)
1. Visit `/matrix`
2. Tab 1: Update profile (higher rating)
3. Tab 3: Review theories
4. Tab 5: Check CFR for next rating
5. Tab 7: View increase strategy
6. Tab 8: Download summary
7. File on VA.gov

### Workflow 3: Secondary Condition Research
1. Visit `/claims`
2. Click "Secondary Condition Finder"
3. View primary → secondary relationships
4. Review medical nexus explanations
5. Check CFR codes
6. Generate evidence checklist
7. File on VA.gov

---

## Future Enhancements

### Short-Term:
- PDF export (in addition to HTML)
- Email summary delivery
- More CFR codes (50+ conditions)
- Mobile app version

### Medium-Term:
- 50-state benefits database
- County-level benefits
- VSO integration
- Claim status tracking

### Long-Term:
- AI claim analyzer
- Evidence scanner (upload medical records)
- Multi-language support
- Veteran community forum

---

## Support Resources

### For Veterans:
- Platform includes help text throughout
- FAQ sections on each page
- Legal disclaimers explain limitations
- VA.gov links for official filing

### For Developers:
- All code commented
- TypeScript typed
- Component documentation
- API reference in code

---

## Success Metrics

### Technical:
- 0 TypeScript compilation errors
- 0 runtime errors
- 100% WCAG 2.1 AA accessibility
- 100% legal compliance

### Functional:
- 6-step wizard operational
- 8-tab matrix dashboard functional
- 17 CFR codes in database
- 8 theories of entitlement
- 18 benefits rules
- 6 branch themes

### User Experience:
- Single data entry (profile)
- Real-time updates across all modules
- Branch theming enhances identity
- Mobile-first responsive
- Fast load times (<1 second)

---

## Version History

**v1.0.0** - Benefits Matrix Engine
- JSON rules database
- Evaluation engine
- React dashboard

**v2.0.0** - Complete Claim Wizard
- 6-step wizard
- CFR database
- Evidence checklists
- Export functionality

**v3.0.0** - Matrix Architecture ⭐ CURRENT
- Unified MatrixEngine
- Branch theming system
- Claims Hub
- Theories of Entitlement
- Matrix Dashboard (8 tabs)
- Interconnected modules
- Real-time updates

---

## Getting Started

### For Users:
1. Visit http://localhost:5173/claims
2. Select your branch
3. Complete your profile
4. Explore the matrix
5. Prepare your claim
6. File on VA.gov

### For Developers:
```bash
cd "c:\Dev\Rally Forge\rally-forge-frontend"
npm run dev
```

Then visit:
- Claims Hub: http://localhost:5173/claims
- Matrix Dashboard: http://localhost:5173/matrix
- Claim Wizard: http://localhost:5173/wizard
- Benefits Matrix: http://localhost:5173/benefits-matrix

---

**rallyforge Matrix Architecture - Serving Those Who Served** 🎖️
