docs/WEEK_1_ACTION_PLAN.md, before:

# 🚀 IMMEDIATE ACTION PLAN
## Week 1 Priority Tasks

---

## TASK 1: TypeScript Type Safety Restoration (Est. 6-8 hours)

### Current State
```json
// tsconfig.json (BROKEN)
"strict": false,
"noUnusedLocals": false,
"noUnusedParameters": false
```

### Step-by-Step Fix

**1A. Enable strict mode globally (30 minutes)**
```bash
# cd vets-ready-frontend/

# Backup current config
cp tsconfig.json tsconfig.json.backup

# Restore strict mode in tsconfig.json
# Change lines 18-22 from false → true
```

**1B. Run type check to see full damage (15 minutes)**
```bash
npx tsc --noEmit
# Expected: 200-300 errors reported
```

**1C. Fix errors by category (3-4 hours)**

Priority order:
1. **Missing types** (quick fix - add type annotations)
2. **Null safety** (medium - add checks or use optional chaining)
3. **Implicit any** (quick fix - add type or use `any` temporarily)
4. **Unused variables** (trivial - remove or prefix with `_`)

Example fixes:
```typescript
// BEFORE (type error)
const [mos, setMos] = useState();  // Implicit any

// AFTER (type-safe)
const [mos, setMos] = useState<string>('');
```

**1D. Re-add TypeScript compilation to build (15 minutes)**
```json
// package.json
"build": "tsc --noEmit && vite build"
```

**1E. Test full build pipeline (30 minutes)**
```bash
npm run build
# Should complete with zero type errors
```

---

## TASK 2: Recover ARDE Module (Est. 1-2 hours)

### Current State
```
❌ src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts.bak
   - Revenue opportunity discovery system
   - Analytics dashboard backend
   - Partnership matching
```

### Recovery Steps

**2A. Check git history (10 minutes)**
```bash
cd vets-ready-frontend
git log --oneline src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts | head -20
```

**2B. Find last working commit (5 minutes)**
```bash
# Look for commits BEFORE the corruption
git show [COMMIT_HASH]:src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts > /tmp/clean-arde.ts
```

**2C. Restore and verify (30 minutes)**
```bash
# Restore from git
git checkout [LAST_GOOD_COMMIT] -- src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts

# Run type check on this file only
npx tsc --noEmit src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts

# If errors, fix incrementally with proper types
```

**2D. Remove .bak file**
```bash
rm src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts.bak
```

**2E. Commit recovery**
```bash
git add src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts
git commit -m "feat: restore ARDE module with type safety"
```

---

## TASK 3: Recover Rating Narrative Scanner (Est. 1-2 hours)

### Current State
```
❌ src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts.bak
   - DD-214 rating decision extraction
   - OCR integration with Tesseract.js
```

### Recovery Steps
*Same as TASK 2, applied to RatingNarrativeScanner.ts*

```bash
git log --oneline src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts | head -20
git checkout [LAST_GOOD_COMMIT] -- src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts
npx tsc --noEmit src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts
# [Fix any type errors]
rm src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts.bak
git commit -m "feat: restore rating narrative scanner with type safety"
```

---

## TASK 4: Recover Admin Revenue Dashboard (Est. 1-2 hours)

### Current State
```
❌ src/pages/AdminRevenueDashboard.tsx.bak
   - Analytics dashboard
   - Revenue stream monitoring
   - Platform metrics
```

### Recovery Steps
*Same as TASK 2, applied to AdminRevenueDashboard.tsx*

---

## TASK 5: Data Flow Architecture Documentation (Est. 1-2 hours)

### Create New File

**File**: `docs/DATA_FLOW_ARCHITECTURE.md`

```markdown
# Data Flow Architecture

## Overview
This document describes how data flows through VetsReady from user action to database and back.

## Diagram
\`\`\`
USER INTERFACE (React Component)
    ↓ (User clicks, submits form)
COMPONENT STATE (useState/Context)
    ↓ (onSubmit handler called)
REACT HOOK (useEmployment, useHousing, etc.)
    ↓ (calls apiService.translateMOS)
API SERVICE (src/services/api.ts)
    ↓ (axios POST to /api/v1/employment/translate-mos)
BACKEND ROUTER (app/routers/employment.py)
    ↓ (validates input with Pydantic)
BUSINESS LOGIC (app/services/employment_service.py)
    ↓ (queries mosMap or database)
DATABASE (PostgreSQL)
    ↓ (returns result: DTO)
RESPONSE (Pydantic model)
    ↓ (axios returns to hook)
REACT QUERY CACHE (TanStack Query)
    ↓ (updates component state)
COMPONENT RE-RENDER
\`\`\`

## Matrix Engine Parallel Flow
\`\`\`
USER MILITARY DATA (DD-214 upload, profile)
    ↓
MATRIX ENGINE INGESTION
    ├── MOS Code Translator (employment/)
    ├── Disability Analyzer (disabilityCalculator/)
    ├── Secondary Condition Finder (secondaryConditionFinder/)
    └── STR Intelligence Engine (strIntelligenceEngine/)
    ↓
ENRICHED VETERAN PROFILE
    (skills, eligible benefits, recommendations)
    ↓
COMPONENT RENDERING
    (EmploymentPage, BenefitsPage, etc.)
\`\`\`

## Request/Response Contract

### Request: POST /api/v1/employment/translate-mos
\`\`\`json
{
  "mosCode": "11B",
  "branch": "Army",
  "yearsOfService": 8,
  "skillLevel": "expert"
}
\`\`\`

### Response: 200 OK
\`\`\`json
{
  "mosCode": "11B",
  "mosTitle": "Infantryman",
  "civilianCareers": [
    {
      "title": "Security Guard",
      "matchPercentage": 95,
      "requiredCertifications": ["CPR", "Background Check"],
      "averageSalary": 32000
    }
  ],
  "recommendedTraining": [
    { "program": "CompTIA Security+", "vendor": "CompTIA", "cost": 350 }
  ]
}
\`\`\`

## Error Handling Flow

\`\`\`
API REQUEST
    ↓
[SUCCESS] → Cache result → Update UI
    ↓
[4xx ERROR] → Parse error code → Display user-friendly message
    ↓
[5xx ERROR] → Log to monitoring service → Show generic error → Retry button
\`\`\`

## State Management Strategy

- **Server State** (React Query): Benefits data, API responses
- **Global UI State** (Zustand): Theme, notifications, modal state
- **Local State** (useState): Form inputs, dropdowns
- **Matrix Engine State** (custom): Veteran profile enrichment

## Critical Path: Complete Veteran Profile

1. User uploads DD-214
2. OCR extracts MOS, dates, disability rating
3. MOS translator enriches with civilian careers
4. Secondary condition finder identifies eligible disabilities
5. STR engine scores opportunity likelihood
6. UI renders enriched profile with benefits estimate
7. User can proceed to claim submission

**Goal**: Complete profile enrichment within 3 seconds of DD-214 upload

## Performance Optimization

- Cache MOS translation results (mosMap.json)
- Lazy-load secondary condition database
- Memoize MatrixEngine calculations
- Implement request debouncing for live search
```

---

## WEEK 1 SUCCESS CRITERIA

- [ ] TypeScript strict mode enabled, all 251 errors fixed
- [ ] ARDE module recovered and type-checked
- [ ] RatingNarrativeScanner recovered and type-checked
- [ ] AdminRevenueDashboard recovered and type-checked
- [ ] Data flow architecture documented
- [ ] Full build succeeds: `npm run build` (zero errors)
- [ ] Dev server runs without type warnings: `npm run dev`
- [ ] Git history clean: All .bak files removed, commits clear

**Expected Outcome**:
- Type safety fully restored ✅
- Revenue module functional ✅
- Analytics available ✅
- Clear architecture documentation ✅

---

## WEEK 2 FOLLOW-UP TASKS

1. **Security Audit** - Check for PII exposure in Redux/localStorage
2. **Test Coverage** - Enable VAKnowledgeCenterSimulation.test.tsx and add tests
3. **Error Handling** - Implement unified error handling strategy
4. **API Contract** - Generate OpenAPI/Swagger documentation
5. **Performance** - Run Lighthouse audit, optimize bundle size

---

## COMMAND REFERENCE

```bash
# Quick type check (no build)
npm run type-check  # or: npx tsc --noEmit

# Full build with type checking
npm run build

# Watch for type errors while developing
npx tsc --watch --noEmit

# Check specific file for errors
npx tsc --noEmit src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts

# View git history of specific file
git log --oneline -p src/services/ARDE.ts

# Restore file from specific commit
git checkout [COMMIT_HASH] -- src/services/ARDE.ts
```

---

## ESTIMATED TIME BREAKDOWN

| Task | Estimated Hours | Priority |
|------|-----------------|----------|
| Enable strict mode + fix errors | 6-8 | 🔴 Critical |
| Recover ARDE module | 1-2 | 🔴 Critical |
| Recover RatingNarrativeScanner | 1-2 | 🔴 Critical |
| Recover AdminRevenueDashboard | 1-2 | 🔴 Critical |
| Create data flow documentation | 1-2 | 🟠 High |
| **TOTAL WEEK 1** | **11-16 hours** | **1-2 days** |

**One developer can complete all Week 1 tasks in 2-3 calendar days.**

---

*Created: January 26, 2026*
*For: VetsReady Platform Excellence Initiative*

Commit message:

chore: rename Vets Ready and check six to Rally Forge

docs/WEEK_1_ACTION_PLAN.md, after:

# 🚀 IMMEDIATE ACTION PLAN
## Week 1 Priority Tasks

---

## TASK 1: TypeScript Type Safety Restoration (Est. 6-8 hours)

### Current State
```json
// tsconfig.json (BROKEN)
"strict": false,
"noUnusedLocals": false,
"noUnusedParameters": false
```

### Step-by-Step Fix

**1A. Enable strict mode globally (30 minutes)**
```bash
# cd rally-forge-frontend/

# Backup current config
cp tsconfig.json tsconfig.json.backup

# Restore strict mode in tsconfig.json
# Change lines 18-22 from false → true
```

**1B. Run type check to see full damage (15 minutes)**
```bash
npx tsc --noEmit
# Expected: 200-300 errors reported
```

**1C. Fix errors by category (3-4 hours)**

Priority order:
1. **Missing types** (quick fix - add type annotations)
2. **Null safety** (medium - add checks or use optional chaining)
3. **Implicit any** (quick fix - add type or use `any` temporarily)
4. **Unused variables** (trivial - remove or prefix with `_`)

Example fixes:
```typescript
// BEFORE (type error)
const [mos, setMos] = useState();  // Implicit any

// AFTER (type-safe)
const [mos, setMos] = useState<string>('');
```

**1D. Re-add TypeScript compilation to build (15 minutes)**
```json
// package.json
"build": "tsc --noEmit && vite build"
```

**1E. Test full build pipeline (30 minutes)**
```bash
npm run build
# Should complete with zero type errors
```

---

## TASK 2: Recover ARDE Module (Est. 1-2 hours)

### Current State
```
❌ src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts.bak
   - Revenue opportunity discovery system
   - Analytics dashboard backend
   - Partnership matching
```

### Recovery Steps

**2A. Check git history (10 minutes)**
```bash
cd rally-forge-frontend
git log --oneline src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts | head -20
```

**2B. Find last working commit (5 minutes)**
```bash
# Look for commits BEFORE the corruption
git show [COMMIT_HASH]:src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts > /tmp/clean-arde.ts
```

**2C. Restore and verify (30 minutes)**
```bash
# Restore from git
git checkout [LAST_GOOD_COMMIT] -- src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts

# Run type check on this file only
npx tsc --noEmit src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts

# If errors, fix incrementally with proper types
```

**2D. Remove .bak file**
```bash
rm src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts.bak
```

**2E. Commit recovery**
```bash
git add src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts
git commit -m "feat: restore ARDE module with type safety"
```

---

## TASK 3: Recover Rating Narrative Scanner (Est. 1-2 hours)

### Current State
```
❌ src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts.bak
   - DD-214 rating decision extraction
   - OCR integration with Tesseract.js
```

### Recovery Steps
*Same as TASK 2, applied to RatingNarrativeScanner.ts*

```bash
git log --oneline src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts | head -20
git checkout [LAST_GOOD_COMMIT] -- src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts
npx tsc --noEmit src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts
# [Fix any type errors]
rm src/services/RatingNarrativeScanner.ts.bak
git commit -m "feat: restore rating narrative scanner with type safety"
```

---

## TASK 4: Recover Admin Revenue Dashboard (Est. 1-2 hours)

### Current State
```
❌ src/pages/AdminRevenueDashboard.tsx.bak
   - Analytics dashboard
   - Revenue stream monitoring
   - Platform metrics
```

### Recovery Steps
*Same as TASK 2, applied to AdminRevenueDashboard.tsx*

---

## TASK 5: Data Flow Architecture Documentation (Est. 1-2 hours)

### Create New File

**File**: `docs/DATA_FLOW_ARCHITECTURE.md`

```markdown
# Data Flow Architecture

## Overview
This document describes how data flows through rallyforge from user action to database and back.

## Diagram
\`\`\`
USER INTERFACE (React Component)
    ↓ (User clicks, submits form)
COMPONENT STATE (useState/Context)
    ↓ (onSubmit handler called)
REACT HOOK (useEmployment, useHousing, etc.)
    ↓ (calls apiService.translateMOS)
API SERVICE (src/services/api.ts)
    ↓ (axios POST to /api/v1/employment/translate-mos)
BACKEND ROUTER (app/routers/employment.py)
    ↓ (validates input with Pydantic)
BUSINESS LOGIC (app/services/employment_service.py)
    ↓ (queries mosMap or database)
DATABASE (PostgreSQL)
    ↓ (returns result: DTO)
RESPONSE (Pydantic model)
    ↓ (axios returns to hook)
REACT QUERY CACHE (TanStack Query)
    ↓ (updates component state)
COMPONENT RE-RENDER
\`\`\`

## Matrix Engine Parallel Flow
\`\`\`
USER MILITARY DATA (DD-214 upload, profile)
    ↓
MATRIX ENGINE INGESTION
    ├── MOS Code Translator (employment/)
    ├── Disability Analyzer (disabilityCalculator/)
    ├── Secondary Condition Finder (secondaryConditionFinder/)
    └── STR Intelligence Engine (strIntelligenceEngine/)
    ↓
ENRICHED VETERAN PROFILE
    (skills, eligible benefits, recommendations)
    ↓
COMPONENT RENDERING
    (EmploymentPage, BenefitsPage, etc.)
\`\`\`

## Request/Response Contract

### Request: POST /api/v1/employment/translate-mos
\`\`\`json
{
  "mosCode": "11B",
  "branch": "Army",
  "yearsOfService": 8,
  "skillLevel": "expert"
}
\`\`\`

### Response: 200 OK
\`\`\`json
{
  "mosCode": "11B",
  "mosTitle": "Infantryman",
  "civilianCareers": [
    {
      "title": "Security Guard",
      "matchPercentage": 95,
      "requiredCertifications": ["CPR", "Background Check"],
      "averageSalary": 32000
    }
  ],
  "recommendedTraining": [
    { "program": "CompTIA Security+", "vendor": "CompTIA", "cost": 350 }
  ]
}
\`\`\`

## Error Handling Flow

\`\`\`
API REQUEST
    ↓
[SUCCESS] → Cache result → Update UI
    ↓
[4xx ERROR] → Parse error code → Display user-friendly message
    ↓
[5xx ERROR] → Log to monitoring service → Show generic error → Retry button
\`\`\`

## State Management Strategy

- **Server State** (React Query): Benefits data, API responses
- **Global UI State** (Zustand): Theme, notifications, modal state
- **Local State** (useState): Form inputs, dropdowns
- **Matrix Engine State** (custom): Veteran profile enrichment

## Critical Path: Complete Veteran Profile

1. User uploads DD-214
2. OCR extracts MOS, dates, disability rating
3. MOS translator enriches with civilian careers
4. Secondary condition finder identifies eligible disabilities
5. STR engine scores opportunity likelihood
6. UI renders enriched profile with benefits estimate
7. User can proceed to claim submission

**Goal**: Complete profile enrichment within 3 seconds of DD-214 upload

## Performance Optimization

- Cache MOS translation results (mosMap.json)
- Lazy-load secondary condition database
- Memoize MatrixEngine calculations
- Implement request debouncing for live search
```

---

## WEEK 1 SUCCESS CRITERIA

- [ ] TypeScript strict mode enabled, all 251 errors fixed
- [ ] ARDE module recovered and type-checked
- [ ] RatingNarrativeScanner recovered and type-checked
- [ ] AdminRevenueDashboard recovered and type-checked
- [ ] Data flow architecture documented
- [ ] Full build succeeds: `npm run build` (zero errors)
- [ ] Dev server runs without type warnings: `npm run dev`
- [ ] Git history clean: All .bak files removed, commits clear

**Expected Outcome**:
- Type safety fully restored ✅
- Revenue module functional ✅
- Analytics available ✅
- Clear architecture documentation ✅

---

## WEEK 2 FOLLOW-UP TASKS

1. **Security Audit** - Check for PII exposure in Redux/localStorage
2. **Test Coverage** - Enable VAKnowledgeCenterSimulation.test.tsx and add tests
3. **Error Handling** - Implement unified error handling strategy
4. **API Contract** - Generate OpenAPI/Swagger documentation
5. **Performance** - Run Lighthouse audit, optimize bundle size

---

## COMMAND REFERENCE

```bash
# Quick type check (no build)
npm run type-check  # or: npx tsc --noEmit

# Full build with type checking
npm run build

# Watch for type errors while developing
npx tsc --watch --noEmit

# Check specific file for errors
npx tsc --noEmit src/services/AutomaticRevenueDesignEngine.ts

# View git history of specific file
git log --oneline -p src/services/ARDE.ts

# Restore file from specific commit
git checkout [COMMIT_HASH] -- src/services/ARDE.ts
```

---

## ESTIMATED TIME BREAKDOWN

| Task | Estimated Hours | Priority |
|------|-----------------|----------|
| Enable strict mode + fix errors | 6-8 | 🔴 Critical |
| Recover ARDE module | 1-2 | 🔴 Critical |
| Recover RatingNarrativeScanner | 1-2 | 🔴 Critical |
| Recover AdminRevenueDashboard | 1-2 | 🔴 Critical |
| Create data flow documentation | 1-2 | 🟠 High |
| **TOTAL WEEK 1** | **11-16 hours** | **1-2 days** |

**One developer can complete all Week 1 tasks in 2-3 calendar days.**

---

*Created: January 26, 2026*
*For: rallyforge Platform Excellence Initiative*
